
NAME

  keept - keep pseudo terminal (with (multi) attach/detach)


SYNOPSIS

  keept FLAGS socket [OPTS] [COMMAND [ARG]...]


DESCRIPTION

  KeePt runs command under a separate pseudo terminal and keeps the master
  side open in a daemon process.

  User may then (re)connect to this daemon process and get terminal access
  to the command running there.

  The unix domain socket used to connect to the daemon process can accept
  multiple simultaneous connections and user may disconnect any of the
  connections at will.

  This interface works pretty much like what dtach(1) provides, but the
  feature set is slightly different. screen(1) and tmux(1) are more versatile
  alternatives whenever needed.


OPTIONS

  KeePt tries to provide convenient command line interface to the users,
  YMMV. To reach this SYNOPSIS is divided in 3 parts: flags, socket,
  optiond and process command line arguments.

  FLAGS

    q:   redraw mode is none -- when reconnecting to keept daemon don't request
         anything to be done in this sense. window size does not change

    b:   redraw mode buffer -- request keept daemon to send the contents of
         circular buffer that contains last output to client. with this flag
         buffer size defaults to 1024, otherwise it is zero (0) (see -s below)

    bw:  in addition to the above, client sends window size information and
         if it differs what daemon thinks WINCH is sent to process

    l:   redraw mode is ctrl-l: daemon writes ctrl-l to process and it responds
         as it wishes (e.g. emacs will redraw its window). window size is
         not changing

    lw:  if client and daemon agrees on window size, ctrl-l is sent, if not
         WINCH is sent to the process

    w:   WINCH is sent to the process

    W/o any of the above, redraw mode is what was given when KeePt started,
    and if none was given at that time, 'lw' is the default

    a:  attach only -- if COMMAND [ARG] were given, those are ignored. If
        socket is not live, exit

    n:  execute COMMAND [ARG] but no attach. print failure if there command
        is not given

    m:  must create -- COMMAND [ARG] must be given and socket must not be
        live when this flag is there

    r:  when attaching, terminal input is discarded by client (and if daemon
        got it, it would also discard received input)

    x:  instead of sending WINCH to resize process running under keept daemon
        (attempt to) resize client terminal using common escape sequences

    t:  attach to the process under keept control even there is no local tty

    z:  when (re)attaching, send ctrl-z as first input

    @:  in system supporting "abstract socket namespace" (linux) bind/connect
        to socket in abstract socket namespace.

    -:  no-op -- provided for user convenience

  socket

    The socket name (filename or name in abstract socket namespace) what to
    bind by keept daemon or where to connect by keept client. Unix domain
    socket of SOCK_SEQPACKET type.

    If filesystem socket exists and is not live, it is considerd as it did
    not exist at all (unlinked before rebinding).

  OPTIONS

    -s size:  circular buffer size. 1024 is 'b' is given in FLAGS, circular
              buffer size defaults to 1024, otherwise w/o this, there will
              be no buffering

    -g {rows}x{cols}:  instead of using current window size use the one given
                       with this argument. most useful when there is no tty

    -o filename:  do script(1) like logging to filename (no buffering). the
                  file is initially unreadable (chmod 000) since e.g. cat(1)
                  to the file would cause live loop and file filling up
                  quickly

  COMMAND [[ARG]...]

    The command (and its arguments) to be executed when the socket argument
    given is not available/live (and 'm' explicitly requests this).


ESCAPE CHARARTER

  The keept client detaches from keept daemon by entering Ctrl-Z on
  attached terminal. Currently there is no way to disable or change
  this character.

  Ctrl-Z can be sent to process with 'z' flag in keept command line
  (i.e. reattach after ctrl-z with 'z' in FLAGS argument).


ENVIRONMENT

  KeePt gets its environment from (grand)parent process, and process started
  by keept from keept.

  KEEPT_PID  is added to keept environment before it starts its child
             process. It is internally used by keept to avoid re-attaching
             keept socket, which would be problematic.

  KEEPT_SOCKARG  contains the value of socket argument verbatim. Users
                 may find use for it...


EXAMPLE

  keept bw a-socket zsh


SEE ALSO

  screen(1), dtach(1), tmux(1), script(1)


BUGS

  No known ones, but some things are unresolvable.


AUTHOR

  Tomi Ollila <tomi.ollila@iki.fi>


LICENSE

  2-Clause (Simplified) BSD license. See LICENSE file for details.

.
